Once upon a time there were some unusual Australian sheep, with exceptionally sharp eyesight.

The small flock spent three months last year with bionic, artificial eyes, surgically implanted behind their retinas.

As a result, an application has now been made to start testing in human patients.

Image caption, A close up of the tiny Phoenix 99 system, which it is hoped will soon start human trials

"Advancements in technology have been redefining ophthalmology," says Dr Diane Hilal-Campo, a New Jersey-based ophthalmologist.

As an example, she points to a bionic eye that has already been fitted to more than 350 people around the world - Argus II from US firm, Second Sight.

Image caption, Turkish woman Dilek Umran Ozturk got an Argus II implant in 2015, and it has enabled her to see the light form of people and shape for the first time

Second Sight is now continuing work on a new product called Orion.

This is a brain implant, and the company says that it has the goal that Orion will be able to treat nearly all forms of profound blindness.

Image caption, Dr Hilal-Campo says that the cost of bionic eyes need to come down substantially

"However, there is still a strong drive to treat or prevent blindness from occurring in the first place."

Technologies that detect and diagnose vision impairments, he explains, are likely to have a much wider impact in the short-term.

"For example, we are able to quickly take multiple scans of different structures within the eye, examine them in greater resolution, and share them quickly with colleagues.

Artificial intelligence is also able to take decisions [on this], in some cases faster, and with greater reliability, than experienced clinicians."

"That's probably the technology that people get most excited about, because it does a lot of different things, and just uses the camera and operating software that is built into the phone already," adds Dr Squier "And it's usually pretty easy for people to learn how to use."

That isn't to say that Dr Squier doesn't see more sophisticated technologies - bionic eyes included - having a significant impact in the future as technology advances.

"I think even bionic eyes are going in the right direction," she says.

